---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "openai_project_service_accounts Data Source - terraform-provider-openai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Project Service Accounts data source
---

# openai_project_service_accounts (Data Source)

Project Service Accounts data source



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (String) Project identifier

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Projects identifier
- `project_service_accounts` (Attributes List) Project Service Accounts (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--project_service_accounts))

<a id="nestedatt--project_service_accounts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `project_service_accounts`

Required:

- `id` (String) The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints
- `project_id` (String) The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

Optional:

- `api_key` (Attributes) A list of tool enabled on the assistant. There can be a maximum of 128 tools per assistant. Tools can be of types code_interpreter, retrieval, or function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--project_service_accounts--api_key))

Read-Only:

- `created_at` (Number) The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the service account was created.
- `name` (String) The name of the service account.
- `object` (String) The object type, which is always organization.project.service_account
- `role` (String) owner or member

<a id="nestedatt--project_service_accounts--api_key"></a>
### Nested Schema for `project_service_accounts.api_key`

Read-Only:

- `created_at` (Number) The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the api_key was created.
- `id` (String) The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.
- `name` (String) The name of the api_key secret.
- `object` (String) The object type, which is always organization.project.service_account.api_key.
- `value` (String, Sensitive) The value of the api_key secret.
