docs/resources/assistant.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "openai_assistant Resource - terraform-provider-openai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Assistant resource
---

# openai_assistant (Resource)

Assistant resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    openai = {
      source = "skyscrapr/openai"
    }
  }
}

resource "openai_assistant" "test" {
  name         = "tf-test-sample"
  description  = "tf-test-sample"
  model        = "gpt-4"
  instructions = "You are a personal math tutor. When asked a question, write and run Python code to answer the question."
  tools = [
    {
      type = "code_interpreter"
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `model` (String) ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your available models.

### Optional

- `description` (String) The description of the assistant. The maximum length is 512 characters.
- `instructions` (String) The system instructions that the assistant uses. The maximum length is 32768 characters.
- `metadata` (Map of String) Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium of 512 characters long.
- `name` (String) The name of the assistant. The maximum length is 256 characters.
- `temperature` (Number) What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic.
- `tool_resources` (Attributes) A set of resources that are used by the assistant's tools. The resources are specific to the type of tool. For example, the code_interpreter tool requires a list of file IDs, while the file_search tool requires a list of vector store IDs. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tool_resources))
- `tools` (Attributes List) A list of tool enabled on the assistant. There can be a maximum of 128 tools per assistant. Tools can be of types code_interpreter, retrieval, or function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tools))
- `top_p` (Number) An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered.

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (Number) The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the assistant was created.
- `id` (String) The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.
- `object` (String) The object type, which is always assistant.

<a id="nestedatt--tool_resources"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tool_resources`

Optional:

- `code_interpreter` (Attributes) Function definition for tools of type function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tool_resources--code_interpreter))
- `file_search` (Attributes) Function definition for tools of type function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tool_resources--file_search))

<a id="nestedatt--tool_resources--code_interpreter"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tool_resources.code_interpreter`

Optional:

- `file_ids` (List of String) A list of file IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20 files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in ascending order.


<a id="nestedatt--tool_resources--file_search"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tool_resources.file_search`

Optional:

- `vector_store_ids` (List of String) A list of file IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20 files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in ascending order.



<a id="nestedatt--tools"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tools`

Required:

- `type` (String) Tools can be of types code_interpreter, retrieval, or function.

Optional:

- `function` (Attributes) Function definition for tools of type function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tools--function))

<a id="nestedatt--tools--function"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tools.function`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the function to be called. Must be a-z, A-Z, 0-9, or contain underscores and dashes, with a maximum length of 64.
- `parameters` (String) The parameters the functions accepts, described as a JSON Schema object.

Optional:

- `description` (String) A description of what the function does, used by the model to choose when and how to call the function.

Commit message:

add support to assistants for response_format attribute.

docs/resources/assistant.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "openai_assistant Resource - terraform-provider-openai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Assistant resource
---

# openai_assistant (Resource)

Assistant resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    openai = {
      source = "skyscrapr/openai"
    }
  }
}

resource "openai_assistant" "test" {
  name         = "tf-test-sample"
  description  = "tf-test-sample"
  model        = "gpt-4"
  instructions = "You are a personal math tutor. When asked a question, write and run Python code to answer the question."
  tools = [
    {
      type = "code_interpreter"
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `model` (String) ID of the model to use. You can use the List models API to see all of your available models.

### Optional

- `description` (String) The description of the assistant. The maximum length is 512 characters.
- `instructions` (String) The system instructions that the assistant uses. The maximum length is 32768 characters.
- `metadata` (Map of String) Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium of 512 characters long.
- `name` (String) The name of the assistant. The maximum length is 256 characters.
- `response_format` (Attributes) Specifies the format that the model must output. Compatible with GPT-4o, GPT-4 Turbo, and all GPT-3.5 Turbo models since gpt-3.5-turbo-1106. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--response_format))
- `temperature` (Number) What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic.
- `tool_resources` (Attributes) A set of resources that are used by the assistant's tools. The resources are specific to the type of tool. For example, the code_interpreter tool requires a list of file IDs, while the file_search tool requires a list of vector store IDs. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tool_resources))
- `tools` (Attributes List) A list of tool enabled on the assistant. There can be a maximum of 128 tools per assistant. Tools can be of types code_interpreter, retrieval, or function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tools))
- `top_p` (Number) An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling, where the model considers the results of the tokens with top_p probability mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass are considered.

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (Number) The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the assistant was created.
- `id` (String) The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.
- `object` (String) The object type, which is always assistant.

<a id="nestedatt--response_format"></a>
### Nested Schema for `response_format`

Required:

- `type` (String) Setting to {"type": "json_schema", "json_schema": {...} } enables Structured Outputs which ensures the model will match your supplied JSON schema. Setting to { "type": "json_object" } enables JSON mode, which ensures the message the model generates is valid JSON.

Optional:

- `json_schema` (Attributes) Specifies the format that the model must output. Compatible with GPT-4o, GPT-4 Turbo, and all GPT-3.5 Turbo models since gpt-3.5-turbo-1106. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--response_format--json_schema))

<a id="nestedatt--response_format--json_schema"></a>
### Nested Schema for `response_format.json_schema`

Required:

- `name` (String) The parameters the functions accepts, described as a JSON Schema object.
- `schema` (String) The schema for the response format, described as a JSON Schema object.

Optional:

- `description` (String) A description of what the response format is for, used by the model to determine how to respond in the format.
- `strict` (Boolean) Whether to enable strict schema adherence when generating the output. If set to true, the model will always follow the exact schema defined in the schema field. Only a subset of JSON Schema is supported when strict is true.



<a id="nestedatt--tool_resources"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tool_resources`

Optional:

- `code_interpreter` (Attributes) Function definition for tools of type function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tool_resources--code_interpreter))
- `file_search` (Attributes) Function definition for tools of type function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tool_resources--file_search))

<a id="nestedatt--tool_resources--code_interpreter"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tool_resources.code_interpreter`

Optional:

- `file_ids` (List of String) A list of file IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20 files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in ascending order.


<a id="nestedatt--tool_resources--file_search"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tool_resources.file_search`

Optional:

- `vector_store_ids` (List of String) A list of file IDs attached to this assistant. There can be a maximum of 20 files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in ascending order.



<a id="nestedatt--tools"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tools`

Required:

- `type` (String) Tools can be of types code_interpreter, retrieval, or function.

Optional:

- `function` (Attributes) Function definition for tools of type function. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tools--function))

<a id="nestedatt--tools--function"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tools.function`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the function to be called. Must be a-z, A-Z, 0-9, or contain underscores and dashes, with a maximum length of 64.
- `parameters` (String) The parameters the functions accepts, described as a JSON Schema object.

Optional:

- `description` (String) A description of what the function does, used by the model to choose when and how to call the function.
