---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "openai_vector_store Resource - terraform-provider-openai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  VectorStore resource
---

# openai_vector_store (Resource)

VectorStore resource



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `file_ids` (List of String) A list of file IDs attached to this vector store. There can be a maximum of 20 files attached to the assistant. Files are ordered by their creation date in ascending order.
- `name` (String) Name

### Optional

- `expires_after` (Attributes) The expiration policy for a vector store. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--expires_after))
- `metadata` (Map of String) Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to a vector store. This can be useful for storing additional information about the vector store in a structured format. Keys can be a maximum of 64 characters long and values can be a maxium of 512 characters long.

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (Number) Created Time
- `expires_at` (Number) The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the vector store will expire.
- `file_counts` (Attributes) The expiration policy for a vector store. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--file_counts))
- `id` (String) VectorStore Identifier
- `last_active_at` (Number) The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the vector store was last active.
- `object` (String) The object type, which is always vector_store.
- `status` (String) The status of the vector store, which can be either expired, in_progress, or completed. A status of completed indicates that the vector store is ready for use.
- `usage_bytes` (Number) The total number of bytes used by the files in the vector store.

<a id="nestedatt--expires_after"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expires_after`

Required:

- `days` (Number) The number of days after the anchor time that the vector store will expire.

Optional:

- `anchor` (String) Anchor timestamp after which the expiration policy applies.


<a id="nestedatt--file_counts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `file_counts`

Read-Only:

- `cancelled` (Number) The number of files that were cancelled.
- `completed` (Number) The number of files that have been successfully processed.
- `failed` (Number) The number of files that have failed to process.
- `in_progress` (Number) The number of files that are currently being processed.
- `total` (Number) The total number of files.
